# Tasks Calendar



## Index
1. [Introduction](#Introduction)
2. [Development](#Development)
    1. [Calendar](#Calendar)
    2. [Gene](#Gene)
    3. [Evaluation](#Evaluation)
    4. [Selection](#Selection)
    5. [Mutation](#Mutation)
    6. [Crossover](#Crossover)
    7. [Callbacks](#Callbacks)  
    8. [Plots and Visualization](#Plots-and-Visualization)
4. [Hiper-Parameters Selection](#Hiper-Parameters-Selection)
5. [Results](#Results)
6. [Conclusions](#Conclusions)
7. [Future Ideas](#Future-Ideas)
8. [Usage Guide](#Usage-Guide)

## Introduction

For me, coming to Dublin (Ireland) has becomed an opportunity for discovering new places to visit, different tastes to try, people that introduced me to their cultures and that I shared really good moments with and lots more...
As you can see, living abroad can open you a wide range of novel experiences that can frighten anyone but at the end it will make you learn and grow personally, as you enjoy the path. 

Nevertheless, and here is where I tell you what this page is created for, I had as many good occurrences, as bad ones. 
In specific, in this page we will talk about the really hard aspect of living with more people in(at?) the same house, and this aspect is the organization for doing all the common duties needed in order to keep the common areas of the house cleaned and enjoyable for living. 

Since I came to this house, about 8 months ago, the method used for the cleanse of the common spaces have been a handmade task calendar that contained a fixed structure of different tasks spreaded over the month, and the different housemates assigned for each of the task. This is a great idea, but I was lazy to create my calendar, and this is the reason why I started developing this project!

## But First Think it

Before starting developing the whole idea, there were some issues to take care of first. 

First, the problem needs to be defined. 

In this case, we will have a calendar with fixed tasks, so the people always know when the task are due to do. Then, we will have an array of people which will be assigned for each of the tasks. The goal of the model will be assigning the best spot possible for each of the housemates. Not as easy as it seems, this goal will be depending on the rules we want to impose. 

We can now discart supervised learning, we do not have a dataset that we can show to the model to learn how to predict the correct output. 

But unsupervised learning fits well in the definition of the problem as we do not have collected data, but we do have a set of states (Each possibie combination of people assigned to the tasks in a period of time), a set of actions (this actions could be assiging a certain task to a different person for example) and goal (which in this case it will be having the best possible configuration founded).

Having this information, I decided to implement a genetic algorithm for different reasons:
- I already used this algorithm in one past project in the university, so I can use everything I learned into accomplish the objectives.
- Even though its simplicity, it gets good results and nowadays people still use this solution for solving many problems.
- It uses the idea of the local beam search (which searches the goal using several states simmultaneously) but all the successors are generated by combinning two parent states or modifying themselves.

## Genetic Algorithm

The genetic algorithm is an heuristic search, we could consider it as an stochastic variant of the local beam search, which uses multiple states that search for the goal simultaneously. 

This variant is inspired by evolution, the way we obtain all the successors for the next generation is by crossing their parent states. 

This states are called genes, which in our case will be an array of elements, each possition will correspond to a task and the day of the month, previously initialized. Each of the possition will have a person assigned to do this task. 

#### Example of Gene
```
CTB = Check the bins
CK = Clean the kitchen 

tasks = {MONDAY: [CTB], TUESDAY: [],  WEDNESDAY: [], THURSDAY:[CK], FRIDAY:[], SATURDAY:[], SUNDAY: []}
people = [ALICE, BOB, CHARLIE, DAVID]
calendar = [[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7], [8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14]]

# In this small sample we will have for each monday in the calendar array, one possition that corresponds to the task CTB, and the other two elements of the gene will correspond to othe thursday task CK. In chronological order 
Gene = [X, X, X, X]
This X will be assigned to one of the people in the array
Gene = [1, 2, 3, 4] # Where each of the people have an integer value assigned
```



(How did I came up with the idea)
(Problem Definition)
(Algorithm chosen)
(GA explanation)

## Development

### Calendar
 (Calendar library (Link to the library page))

### Gene
    (Gene) - why, Possible variations, Strengths and weakness
    (Calendar Functions)

#### Evaluation

#### Selection

#### Mutation

#### Crossover

#### Callbacks

    - Early stopping
    - Checkpointing

#### Plots and Visualization

Calendar React API (Fullcalendar) - Link

Matplot Lib - Link

### Hiper-Parameters Selection 

### Results

### Conclusions

### Future Ideas

### Usage Guide
